Names:
- Mohammad Daadusch -212001192
- jad Mahajne - 318978152


Explanation of the Output format:

The output file generated by the program contains detailed information about the vacuum cleaner's operation during the simulation for every algorithm-house pair. The format is structured as follows:

1. NumSteps = <NUMBER>: Indicates the total count of movements the vacuum cleaner made during the simulation.

2. DirtLeft = <NUMBER>: Shows the remaining dirt level in the house after the vacuum cleaner has completed its run.

3. Status = <FINISHED/WORKING/DEAD>: Indicates whether the vacuum cleaner's mission is finished, still working, or dead (battery exhausted).

4.InDock = TRUE/FALSE : Indicates where the vacuum cleaner was in the docking station when the algorithm finished running.

5.score = <NUMBER> : Indicates the score of the algorithm on the house according to the formula given in the assignment.

6. Steps:: Lists the steps performed by the vacuum cleaner as characters in one line with no spaces. The characters represent the   directions:
    - N for North
    - E for East
    - S for South
    - W for West
    - s for Stay
    - F for Finished (only if the algorithm actually returned “Finished”)

    for example:
        Steps:
    NESWsF

Algorithm_A summary:

	A DFS based algorithm (deterministic), which for every house-block the vacuum visit we add all its valid neighbors to a stack named 	"unexplored_stack", so when he finish cleaning the block, he chooses the top of the stack and moves towards it(if its a neighbor just take a 	direction, otherwise it goes from a path of visited blocks), if the vacuum returned to the docking station to charge while cleaning a block it 	remembers the path it returned from and it does go back to the last block from the same path, we optimized this by taking out cycles from the path 	to the docking station so that the algorithm won't move in cycles which shorter the paths.

Algorithm_B summary:

	the same algorithm from hw2 with an optimzations:
	The algorithm is deterministic with a bit of randomness, choosing the next step according to the Least Recently Used (LRU) principle. It selects the 	direction that has been chosen the least number of times and has no visited house-block in it (in that direction). If there is a tie in this data 	structure, the algorithm chooses a step according to a predetermined order(WEST,NORTH,EAST,SOUTH), an optimaztion to the hw2 algorithm : when all 	the directions are or visited or wall (but not the 4 directions are walls) it chooses a direction randomly. another optimization was to remove all 	cycles from the path from docking station stack, which makes the path shorter and takes less steps so the vacuum can explore more with these extra 	steps.


Running the Program:
	first compile using this line :
		rm -r build ; cmake -S . -B ./build ; cmake --build ./build
	second run using this line :(you only need to navigate the executable myrobot as the first argument, the second argument you need to give the path 	of the Houses file, the third argument is the file where the algorithm1.so and algorithm2.so files are created, also if there is one of the 	arguments housepath or algopath is missing, the algorithm search for it in the current directory )
	this is the command we were using :  
		./build/simulator/myrobot -house_path=/home/jadmahajne/Advanced-topics-in-programming/HW3Code/Houses -algo_path=/home/jadmahajne/Advanced-		topics-in-programming/HW3Code/build/algorithm


Output: 
	when the program finish running it will create an output folder which contains an output file for every pair house-algorithm and its output for it 	as explained in the output format, the file name is : <housName>-<algorithmName>.

error files:
	the error files are created in the current directory(which is in our case : HW3Code), and it contains the error message.





